
MONTHLY BULLETBS,
INDIANA STATE BOARD OF HEALTH. and 7 poorÑtotal . One hundred and nine hotels and Twelve condemnation reports were issued during the restaurants were
inspected, of which 30 were rated good. month. Eleven cases were condemned because of unsani.d<3 fair and 7 poor. Other inspections! included visits
to tary conditions and 5 because of improper construction. poultry houses, fish markets, ice cream parlors, flour mills, etc. NOTICES OP CONDEMNATIONS
DURING THE MONTH OF FEBRUARY 1912, During the month twelve prosecutions were brought against dealers in adulterated food, and in every case a Reasons
for Condemnation. CLASSIFICATION Ñ __ _ Total. conviction was obtained. Four cases involved the sale of Unsanitary I Improper dirty milk and one for
selling milk which was dirty and to Conditions, | Construction. which water had been added, Five cases were brought Bakery , | I ,..,.,,. , 1against
dealers who sold hamburger and sausage which con.Groceries.	 j 2 ¥.,.,.,,,...., . 2 tained sulphites. One ease involved the sale of tr. iodine
Grocery and meat markets . . . 1 2 2 Meat markets...... . . 2	 2 2which was below standard. A dealer was prosecuted for Hotels and restaurants 5
| 1 5 selling cream which was below standard, The total fines Total.. | II I A j 12 and costs levied during the month amounted to $238.20. LIST OF
PROSECUTIONS MADE DURING THE MONTH OF FEBRUARY, 1912, Lab. Date of COUNTY. Name and Address of Defendant. Why Prosecuted. Trial* Final Disposition.
No. George Gilliatt, Washington. Selling dirty milk % -20-12 Fined $10 Elkhart 3753 F C. F. Moyer, Elkhart. Selling hamburger containing sulphites.
Ñ1 2 Fined $10 and costs. John H. Harmon and Alva Wellman, New Albany Selling dirty milk -1-12 Fined $10 and costs, Grant 5704 D John Sohn,
Marion............ . .. . ... . SeEing dirty milk - ¤-12 Fined S10 and costs, 5709 D Rcnze Koldyke, Marion Selling dirty and watered milk .... . -
7-12 Fined $10 and costs, John Sohn, Marion..... . Selliag cream below standard ..... . - 6-12 Fined S10 and costs,  1-12 Fined $10 and costs, Starke
REPOR T OF BACTERIOLOGICAL laporte John P. Kreuger. Hammond. Selling dirty milk........_ .Selling hamburger containing sulphites. I1B Fined $10
¥2ft-12 and costs, Brinekmann & Son, Michigan City Wm. Miller. Michigan City Selling hamburger containing sulphites. -26-12 Selling sausage
containing sulphites.... Fined $10 and costs, Fined $10 -10-12 and cos's, John Piest, LaPorte. John Piest, LaPorte Selling hamburger containing
sulphites. ¥10-12 Selling tr. iodine below standard...... . Fined 110 and costs, Fined $10 and costs. 7-12 3707F James Dolexal, San Pierre -and
remained in bed until about November 1st with LABORATORY a FOR FEBRUARY, 1912. typical attack, of typhoid fever. Her mother, Mrs. OM took care of
her. A sister-in-law did the housework and cook.WILLIAM SHIMER, ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT. ing. During October a sister and brother, both under nine
Sputum examinations for tubercle bacilli, positive 76, years of age, had attacks of diarrhea and indigestion, from negative 295, total 371; cultures
examined for diphtheria which they recovered in less than two weeks. bacilli, positive 31, negative 173, no growth 7, suspicions 26, During the first
week of December, Mrs. O. was com.total 237; blood examined for Widal reaction, positive 2. pelled to go to bed. She was in bed three weeks with a
negative 72, total 74; brains examined for Negri bodies, positive 13. negative 11, total 24; Gasserian ganglions ex-audited for rabies, positive IS.
negative 7, total 25; pus typical attack of typhoid. A trained nurse took care of her. During the second, week of January, 1912, a daughter aged
fifteen, went to bed with a typical attack of typhoid and examined for gonococci, males, positive 14, negative 25, had not been able to be tip when 1
visited the O. home, total 39, female!? positive 3, negative 8. total 11 ; urines February 13th. examined for tubercle bacilli, positive 1,
negative 4, total There are several interesting things about this series of 5 : other urine specimens examined 17; pathological sec.tions examined,
carcinoma 10. miscellaneous 18. total 28; feces examined 0; pus examined for tubercle bacilli 4t all negative; other examinations of pus. 7; blood
counts made. 0; milk samples examined, 2 ; ascites fluids examined, 2 ; spinal fluid, 1; stomach contents. 1. Total number of examinations of all
specimens for month is S72. Number of outfits sent out during February: Sputum. 347; diphtheria, 278; Widal, 107: special 30; malaria. 10. Total
number of outfits for month, 772. TYPHOID EPIDEMIC A T VEEDERSBURG, cases. Firs t there were no flies during most of the period covered by these
cases; second, there are no causes of typhoid among several other jÈcople who use milk from the same source as this family; and third, they get
their water from a source which supplies all of Veedersburg, and there was possibly only one other case of typhoid In the town. Of the various
other possible explanations of the source of these cases of typhoid In the same family, the one that seems most possible to us is that Miss L. M. O.
acquired her Infection somewhere outside the home? that she passed the infection on to her younger sister and brother, and she, or they? infected
their mother, with all of these cases as a possible source of infection of the last case. Mrs. O- described to us the means she took for render.WILL
SHIMER, M. P. ing the urine and feces sterile. However, she did not seem At the request of Mr. J. D, 0., of Veedersburg, we Inves.to appreciate the
infectiousness of the stools and urine, for tigated the cause for the continued preseaee of typhoid she had been told that typhoid fever was neither
contagious fever in his family. nor infectious, and that she could nurse her daughter with. August 13. 1911, his oldest daughter. Miss L. M. O.,
at-out danger of infecting herself or family. That all of these tended an old settlers* picnic, after which she visited a. cases except the first one
came from close contact is sub.family in the country for two weeks. September 20th she stantiated by the fact that Mr. O. and a son, sixteen years
left home to attend college. At that time she bad some of age, did not have typhoid or any intestinal disturbance fever and headache. She returned
home la a few days during this period. 